Serial NetEvolve 

Serial NetEvolve is a modification of the Treevolve program in which serially sampled 
sequences are evolved along a randomly generated coalescent tree or network 
(Grassly et al. 1999; Hudson 1983; Kingman 1982) . Treevolve offers a variety of 
evolutionary model and population parameters including a rate of recombination and 
as such it was chosen over other programs to be adapted for the simulation of serially 
sampled data. The new features include the choice of either a clock-like model of evolution
or a variable rate of evolution, simulation of serial samples and the output of the 
randomly generated tree or network in Newick format or in our newly formulated NeTwick 
format.
Here we will only list the features that differentiate Serial NetEvolve from the original Treevolve. 
For information on the parameters integral to the original Treevolve v1.3, please consult with its manual that can be found here:
http://evolve.zoo.ox.ac.uk/software/treevolve/manual.php

New Parameters
The parameter file contains all the parameter settings. The new global parameters in 
Serial NetEvolve as they appear in the parameter file are:

[sample size ser period] z10
[periods] p6
[internal nodes sampling probability] i0.1 [0=No-sampling, 0<i<=1 sampling, >1 all]
[no clock] k

Sample Size Per Period
This setting specifies the number of sequences to sample in each time period.
When this setting and the “Periods” setting are chosen, the setting “sample size” 
is ignored. Equivalently, when these two settings are not set, the classic Treevolve
version will run and use the “sample size” to return sequences from the zero-time baseline.

Periods
The number of sampling time periods.

Internal Nodes Sampling Probability
The probability with which sequences from the internal nodes are sampled are discussed 
in (Drummond and Rodrigo 2000) . If the probability is set to 0, then only sequences 
from the leaves are sampled. If 1 then sequences at internal nodes have the same probability
as the sequences at the leaves to be randomly sampled. If larger than 1 then all internal 
sequences are included in the output. Any value in between 0 and 1 may be chosen as 
the probability and it is suggested to pick smaller probabilities with increasing sequence 
lengths. The default is 1 for a sequence length of 1000.

No Clock
Treevolve assumes a molecular clock by default. In NetEvolve the default is “No clock” which simulates variable rates of evolution for serial samples. The no-clock option has no effect when NetEvolve is run with the original Treevolve settings (no serial sampling).

Acknowledgements
Many thanks to Andrew Rambaut for recommending Treevolve and making the source code available.

References
Drummond, A. and A. G. Rodrigo. 2000. Reconstructing genealogies of serial samples under the assumption of a molecular clock using serial-sample UPGMA (sUPGMA). Molecular Biology and Evolution 17:1807-1815.
Felsenstein, J. 1999. The Newick tree format: <http://evolution.genetics.washington.edu/phylip/newicktree.html>
Grassly, N., et al. 1999. Population dynamics of HIV-1 inferred from gene sequences. Genetics 151:427-438.
Hudson, R. R. 1983. Properties of a neutral allele model with intragenic recombination. Theoretical Population Biology 23:183-201.
Kingman, J. F. C. 1982. The coalescent. Stoch. Process. Appl. 13:235-248.

